I just created a new product using AI
and a problem that I wanted to solve for
a long time. And in this video, I want
to give you a breakthrough of what this
product is, how you can use this and how
does it work technically as an overall
architecture as well as some internals
inside the product in order for you to
understand better what this product is
about. And the product I'm talking about
is monitoryoutube.com,
which would be available on
monitoryt.com. You will find the link
for this in the description. But the
idea with this product is that it's
basically a watch list for YouTube
channels that you can add and monitor
what's going on. It's super simple. It
just does one thing and it does it
right. And let me show you how this
works. So if you open this app, it'll
take you to sort of to this feed
structure that you're seeing right now
because I you are logged into my
account. You are seeing my account right
now. But you can go ahead and create an
account on your own. It's free to start
with. You can use your Google account.
But the idea here is that there are just
three things. feed, channels, and
billing. And let me tell you everything
about this. So channels is basically
where you would start once you create an
account for the first time. And you add
a bunch of channels that you feel like
are people who are creating sort of
similar content in your niche, right? So
as an example, I just added a bunch of
these channels in the tech niche which
are creating some sort of AI content or
generally programming content. So the is
of course there, Primogen is there. I
just found WebDev simplified channel as
well in my subscription list. So I added
him. Fire ship obviously everyone knows.
And AI Jason this is also a good
channel. You should check it out. The
content is really good and you can add
like a bunch of channels here. So on the
pro plan which I am on right now you can
add up to 100 channels. And on the free
plan which you start with you can add
two channels right now. So once you add
the channels over here you will be
presented with a feed which is a
chronological feed. So you will see that
over here if you look at these timeline
windows you will see that this happened
6 minutes ago and again like 6 minutes
ago and then 50 minutes ago basically
these are events on what's happening
right so primogen for example changed a
video's title and chances are that he
has not changed this it's an AB test
which apparently would the system would
realize at some point that it's testing
an video title as an AB test instead of
just changing the title the thing is
that in YouTube you can't really check
if you are getting AB tested on the
title as an external person, right? You
can only know that if you are the owner
of the channel. So, this software uses
smart techniques to figure out like if
this is getting AB tested or you know if
actually the title has changed and
sometimes it will suggest that the title
has changed but other times it'll
actually catch that it is indeed an AB
test. For example, I added my own
channel as well which has these two
titles over here just the difference
between chat GBD and OpenAI just to
figure out you know what people are
doing. And of course, not only this,
it'll also show you the stats based on
like for example views, likes, comments
as well. That's coming soon. Subscriber
milestones as well if somebody's
leveling up their subscribers, what's
going on, and even AB test on
thumbnails. That is also something that
is there. Plus, of course, you can
filter it out by new videos. For
example, if you just want to see who
uploaded what video, or if you want to
just see title changes, you can select
that. Or if you just want to see who's
AB testing what, you can also do that.
So you have these bunch of kind filters
that are there. And you can also
simplify or, you know, just search by
channels. For example, fireship uploaded
a video 8 days ago. So I mean, frankly
speaking, this is much more useful for
you if you are a content creator. But if
you also want to just keep a tabs on
what people are doing, feel free to use
this tool. Now, because this is a tech
channel and I like discussing tech, what
I want to tell you guys is how did I
build this in the first place and
everything that this involves. So, let's
get into that a little bit. So, first of
all, this this monitor YouTube, it's
surprisingly not an AI product, right?
So, this is something which can be
solved without AI use in production.
But, of course, I used AI to build this,
but under heavy supervision. And this is
probably the first product end to end
that I have created and shipped where
most of the code was written by AI and
this was a fresh product, right? So this
was not something that I had already
built. So this was the first thing that
is actually useful. That's something
that I've shipped and I'm sharing with
you guys. So this is definitely built
using AI mostly using cloud code and
opus 4.8. But trust me when I say this,
this is actually very like it's it's
very tiring to just continuously steer
Claude in the right direction. It would
just go ahead and start making a lot of
new explorations or mistakes or
patterns. And you know at some point
when you are at 600,000 tokens deep, you
want to restart a session because the
session is too slow. It's not working
properly. And when you do that, the new
session actually loses context on what's
going on. they're not really following
cloud.mmd properly to the word readme
are out ofd. So a lot of things actually
go wrong when you are building software
end to end using AI. That means that
it's very important for you to also
understand how to build software in the
first place so that you can steer these
models properly. So anyway coming back
to the software itself I mean if you see
the software you will see that it's
pretty simple. There is not a lot going
on over here. So monitor or you know
let's just call this app and let's just
restore the title. So this app obviously
consists of a front end and a back end
and both of them are actually on
cloudflare workers right. So I'm using
cloudflare workers here and the third
thing is of course database and in case
of database I initially thought that I
should go with SQLite but then by the
end I just you know couldn't give up on
Postgress. So I just chose Postgress and
this is on planet scale and this is
connected through backend which is on
workers using hyperdrive. So hyperdrive
is a cloudflare product again which
allows you to sort of like pull the
connections so that your workers does
not exhaust the you know limited
postgress capacity of connections. Now
inside the workers of course there is
backend logic for you know stuff like
adding channels payments and you know
user management and all of that stuff
but what is an interesting part because
all of this is like typical these are
like typical crowd operations. What is
interesting in this is the YouTube
monitoring and interestingly there are
actually two ways to do that rather
three. The first one is using something
known as RSS feeds. The second one is
using the API that YouTube provides. And
the third one is actually like browser
based checks. And if you actually look
at RSS feeds, this is mostly useless for
monitoring any sort of in-depth
statistic because this just gives you
like an overall picture of channel and
so on. API is also more or less useless
because it does not give you some
insights on events like AB testing for
example, right? And plus this also comes
with a lot of kota restrictions and you
have to get that elevated and so on and
so forth. Browser based is interesting
because it works obviously like because
you know browser can access YouTube. But
the problem here is that as you start
implementing this you will see that you
are getting rate limited plus you are
getting blocked because of data center
IP addresses. So this is very common
when you're using browser based checks
and that is where surprisingly today's
sponsor also comes into play which is
decodo and this is something that I
ended up using anyway in my product
because when they reached out to me I
was figuring out a solution for this and
when they said that they have the
solution it seemed like a great fit for
me to introduce them through a proper
product that I have created in the first
place. So, Decodo is a platform that is
an AI ready proxy and scraping system
which allows you to use web scraping
API, residential proxies, and even AI
integrations built into their platform
in order to get data from the web. And
once you log into Decoders platform,
you're going to see that you have the
ability to create these proxies and
their credentials very easily. In my
case, for example, I'm using the data
center proxies by rotating them so that
YouTube allows me to keep scraping the
publicly available data. And the way
this works is that over here I have a
Chrome browser which is proxied through
decodo and then it visits YouTube
because if you remove this proxy chances
are that your script would work but
it'll stop working after some time
because YouTube will say that hey you're
sending a lot of requests our way and
probably this is an automated action. So
we would want you to use the API but the
problem with API is that it's not giving
everything that I want. For example AB
test and title changes and so on and so
forth. So you need like an actual
monitor which is like visiting
youtube.com itself. And let me show you
how simple this is. If I continue to
check out and if I use my existing
balance to pay you can see very easily I
can have hundreds of proxies and IP
addresses which I can select in a
rotating fashion and either you can use
like an HTTPS proxy agent something like
this or if you go ahead and select sock
5 over here you would be able to use
this proxy directly with the chrome
browser that I just showed you. So this
proxied through decoder, this instance
actually uses sock 5 on Chrome to route
the traffic only for the specific Chrome
browser. So it's not a VPN. You're not
just transmitting every single piece of
information on your computer through
decodo, just the applications that you
choose to be, which in this case could
be just a Chrome browser. And either you
can have a list of IP addresses or
proxies, or you can just select a
rotating session type and your IP just
keeps on rotating or a fixed interval.
Decode also offers something they call
as a web scraping API which I came to
know about which is basically a
pre-built set of templates that you can
choose against either like all of the
web or specific platforms like YouTube.
Let me show you how. So let's say I
select this YouTube metadata which is
exactly what we want to do and I add the
YouTube video link which I want to fetch
for it or at least the ID for now. So
this is one of my videos and as you can
see the moment I click on this send
request button that is here on the
bottom right and you're going to see
once we get the response back it
basically includes everything from the
description that I had in the video to
the tags that I used for the video the
likes even the thumbnails that are
running at in AB test right and then the
title uploader information and views as
well. So this basically gives you
everything parsed with the help of AI.
So that is what the scraping API and web
scraping API is and there are many
templates that you can run them against.
So this web scraping API product is
super interesting also because it
handles a lot of things on its own like
IP rotation antibbot infrastructure and
unblocking you when firewalls like
Cloudflare could potentially block your
access. Also an interesting way to look
at decoder's web scraping API is with
this table that I have where the web
scraping API itself handles a bunch of
things like JavaScript rendering,
rotating IP address, browsing that
bypasses anti-bot infrastructure and
it's basically sort of like a managed
service, right? Where you just don't
worry about what's happening under the
hood. If you're using a simple IP proxy
system, all of this is still possible,
but then you have to use services on
your own. For example, this JavaScript
rendering would require browser
rendering on your side, right? So you
have to make sure of that for antibot
infrastructure you'll have to use things
like puppeteer stealth or you know some
some weird things like you know using
actual chrome browser not just chromium
and plus of course like managing the IP
rotations and 100 different things which
comes with staying hidden when you are
doing any sort of scraping. So do check
out decodo their pricing is super
affordable to start with all the links
are in the description for you to check
them out. And now back to the video. Now
the bigger challenge is that once you
have created this pipeline how do you
run this in the first place? Of course,
there needs to be a crown system that's
not only just visiting the channel for
new videos or new data or whatever new
is that getting generated, but you also
have to refresh the old data, right?
Because videos get more views, titles
change, thumbnails get updated. So,
whatever the people are doing, you need
to refresh those things and you need to
store them in snapshots because if you
don't store snapshots, then you will not
be able to tell that this happened from
that specific thing. Second is that
channels has to be decoupled from users
because if you think about it let's say
I added four channels my own channel
let's say some other channel let's say a
few more channels over here right so
it's possible that this channel or this
channel is added by some other person as
well in the first place right let's say
this is user two this is you who are
using the product you have added the
same channel for theos right so the work
that has already been done in order to
extract this information is not unique
because this is all public data right so
the AB test for example that he's
running or the video information the
metadata that is available publicly this
is all public information so you don't
have to redo that so the architecture
has to be designed in such a way that
channels are decoupled from the actual
users which are adding that and then
finally you know the speed of
revalidation this has been my biggest
concern so this is something that I have
not solved yet like what will happen if
there are a lot of people who will start
using it the thing is that right now
there's a cron system that runs once
every 15 or 30 minutes I'll have to
check it in the code but every single
every slot of 15 to 30 minutes this
whole revalidation would happen again
and again on a maximum of 50 channels
right so as as time goes by and as we
exceed this count there are a couple of
ways to actually fix this first would be
obviously like doing parallel crons plus
browsers in order to [snorts] you know
get more channels is getting the work
done. But again like it increases cost
because you have to pay for more proxies
and you have to pay for more compute.
The second one is obviously like
speeding up the scraping part right
because spinning up a browser and then
you know going to a website and
navigating all of that is like it takes
time. So even if you are able to you
know reduce it from let's say 2 seconds
to 1 second per video scrape or per
channel scrape that's like 50% of the
time reduced. So again I'll get to this
when we exceed like a few hundred
channels where this starts to be a
problem but otherwise it'll just be like
that instead of 50 channels getting
updated real time if we have let's say
100 channels that set of channel will
get a new update or fresh updates once
every 30 minutes and of course like I
can also reduce the chron time to be
just once every minute but again that
also brings the question that you know
it's basically the same thing as like
parallelizing stuff in order to increase
the throughput. So all in all there were
a lot of system design decisions that I
had to take in building an app which
looks like this but it was super fun and
most importantly this UI and everything
that you see this has been done mostly
by Opus I'm not going to lie I'm not a
huge UI person and that's why you will
see like a few cracks here and there for
example on about page the eyes are not
following my my cursor right but on
other pages it does so I think like
something got missed there so there
would be a couple of things here and
there which would be not on track but I
suggest you you give this a shot. You
can loging in with a free account and
for now you'll be able to add up to two
channels, but you can upgrade to a pro
account for $10 a month. All the billing
is handled by Stripe. So, this is all
secure and easy for you to use and it
allows you to add up to 100 channels for
now. If you need more channels, let me
know. The support for this you can get
easily from anywhere where I'm socially
active, that is on, you know, X or
LinkedIn or YouTube. You can just
comment down or you can even email me if
you want for any feature request or
anything that you are facing any issue
with and I'll take a look. So yeah,
that's pretty much it for this video.
Hopefully you liked it. Do let me know
what you think about the product. I'm
going to see you in the next video very
soon. If you're still watching, make
sure you leave a comment. I watched till
the end below to tell me that you were
still here and let me know what do you
think about the video.
[music]